"The city of Pune, today is known as the nucleus of education. The city owes this reputation to several educational institutes.
The Maharashtra Education Society holds an important share. In 1860, Maharashtra Education Society, formerly called as Poona Native Institution was founded by Pioneer revolunist Vasudev Balwant Phadke, Vaman Prabhakar Bhave and L. N. Indapurkar. The great revolutionary freedom fighter Vasudev Balwant Phadke was the first secretary and treasurer of Maharashtra Education Society.
It was formed with the aim of inculcating nationalistic thoughts and creating a generation of strong character and ideals. The last hundred and fifty six years stands testimony to the fact that the aims of the society have been achieved. MES has given several gems in various fields not just to Maharashtra but to the nation. Started as a simple, single tree is now an enormous tree.
Maharashtra Education Society's Boys schools first name was 'Poona Native Institution'. It was established before Deccan Education Society. That started at old Tapkir lane at Kibevada.
Vasudev Balwant Phadke participated in Freedom movement. But V.P. Bhave and L.N. Indapurkar had contributed a lot for the school. Because of Bahve's selfless attitude and hard work, the school was known as Perugate Bhave School. Now a day the school is famous by two names as 'MES Boys' School and Perugate Bhave School.
MES Boys' School or Perugate Bhave School is famous, popular school in the society. Initially the school has been started at many places like Tasgaonkar Wada, Sadashiv Peth, Dhamdhere Wada. In 1928, the school had been shifted to today's location. Late Vitthal Sayanna had given donation to the school building. That's why the building was named as Vitthal Sayanna building. Sadguru Narayan Maharaj Kedgaon Bet had done 'Bhoomipoojan' of the building. MES Bhave school had given several gems to the society. Shridhar swami was schools ideal student. There are many ideal students like writers, sports persons players, poet, businessman, government officers professors. Series of great respected students had been created by the school. So the school became very popular in Maharashtra. It is an ideal educational institute in the society."
