 Late Shree Shankarrao Patil contributed immensely in the development of Indapur block. He came from a prosperous agriculture family and held achievements in the field of education, social welfare, politics and cooperative activities. He was counted as the most renowned, experienced, respectable person and man of fame and honor in the state of Maharashtra for quite a long time.
He was minister for labour, Gramin-Vikas, Co-operation, Dairy development and Finance in Maharashtra State Government. He was also a Member of Parliament twice. He was founder member of number of educational Institute and chairman of sugar factory.
He worked in social, political and education fields with the principles of cooperative movement and set a benchmark of high ethical values. People adore and respect his relentless efforts for development of masses.
‘Shankar Rao Patil charitable Trust’ has been established to carry on his legacy. His daughter donated his residence bungalow to carry trust activities.
The Trust is active in Education, Skill Education, Medical-Aid, Agriculture Technologies, Sports, and Cultural field. Since last two years Trust is carrying out various programs, implementing numerous projects for students, youths, farmers and women in Indapur block. All these efforts are resulting into development of rural, semi-rural areas of the block.
Trust is having its own premises to run various skill education courses. Office, Classrooms, Workshops - all are well equipped.
The Trust provides support to needy and deserving students for higher education. The facilities of stay, meals and education are provided to the students under “Earn and Learn “scheme. Different sports competitions and cultural activities are organized for overall development of students.
Vocational training courses are available free of cost for college students, home makers as well as young men and women who are deprived of formal education. Such trainings help to enhance capacities of a person to get employment or to start own micro-enterprise.
The trust is implementing multi-purpose programs such as support to needy and poor patients for medical treatment, empowerment of women, environment awareness as well as introduction of new agriculture technologies to farmers. All these efforts are resulting into development of rural, semi-rural areas of the block.We endeavor to provide a favorable platform to every students to identify and nurture his skills and talents. We want every students to be exposed to the best available information and knowledge to ensure success driven, responsible human beings.